All right, welcome
to the Python course on Udemy.
Hope you are enjoying this
and welcome to a fresh new section.
Every new section is like a spark
of new energy and we are always
excited to dive into something new.
The next new topic that we
are going through will be.
Where we will go through is going
to be Object Oriented programming.
Now this object oriented programming,
or in short known as OOP is,
is also termed as oops.
There's no exact shortcut
or a long cut of this one.
It's sometimes called as
object Oriented Programming systems.
That's why the name OOPS here.
But again the concepts are
pretty simple and easy.
Now one thing you always have
to remember that this object
oriented programming is
a paradigm of programming.
What do I mean by paradigm?
Paradigm simply stands for it's
a way of writing the code.
Now this way of writing the code
got evolved during the C era
and after that a lot
of programming languages adopted it.
Java, JavaScript, Kotlin, Swift
and a whole bunch of others as well.
Now this is nothing new.
A whole lot of applications are
being written with this kind
of a style of writing programming.
But there are lots of other
ways of writing programming
syntaxes, and programming
softwares as in general.
One of them is
functional programming.
And these days functional programming
is much more preferred compared to
the classic object oriented.
And in majority of the software
that you'll see in the production
there is always a mix of little
bit functional, little bit
of object oriented programming.
There is no right, there is no wrong.
But yes, through the object oriented
programming we learn a little bit
about new data structures and we
learn how to engage with them.
And as well as we also learn about
the, some of the new terminologies
which are pretty common, things
like polymorphism abstraction,
although they are very in general
English terms and they mean exactly
same as what they mean in general
as they mean in the programming
paradigm as well.
So throughout this section we
will engage with one activity.
We'll keep the videos short
so that we can just focus
on each one topic at a time.
And that's it, that's
all the plan is.
Let me first walk you through
what this whole concept is.
Then we are going to write
our very first object oriented
programming code, file.
I think that's going to be fun.
Let's go ahead and get started.
So with this, let me share
the screen with you.
We have the screen that we saw
in the last demo up here.
So what do I mean by
this object oriented programming?
I'll write them in short as oop
you know the idea, object
oriented programming.
What does this object
oriented programming means?
You will hear this exact same
example, whether somebody
is teaching Java, JavaScript,
whatever they're teaching.
The whole idea is, let's just say
if I have designed this blue box,
this blue box is going
to be my first blueprint, first
sample that I'm creating.
And based on this now a lot of
duplicates can be created out of it.
Literally.
This software allows me
to actually demonstrate this nicely.
So notice here, this
is a copy of this.
Now this copy could be a shorter
one, not exactly that big.
That's okay, it's
an individual copy of this.
There could be another
copy created from it.
And this one will be a little bit
like this, different shape, but it's
actually a copy of this one.
It derived from here, then we changed
its shape, change its property.
And that's okay, that's totally fine.
This one is also a copy of this.
But this time let's go
ahead and change the this
from blue to purple.
These all are actually
connected to this one.
So what do we call each one of them?
So this one is actually
known as class.
So yes, this is known as class.
And all of that you see
here are actually objects.
So there we go.
I'll just expand this a little,
we'll shrink it a little again
and I'll just select this
and we'll reduce the font to small.
There we go.
Now it makes sense, but you got
the point, you got the idea.
I'll just go ahead and write this.
This one is also an object.
Now each of the object is
individual in itself.
Whatever the changes
you make, you can make.
But these changes doesn't
really translate or
pass through the main class itself.
So what we're going to do
in this very first video, we'll
see that how we can make this
blueprint, this whole class,
and that's it, that is all.
And we're going to see that how
Python behaves and how Python works,
some behind the scene details, we
are going to see them as well.
Let's start our new folder.
I really, it's tough to believe
that we are on the 10th number.
We just started the course and we
are so far into this one.
So let's call this one as OOP
and let's create a new file
and call this one as 01 and this
will be a simple class py.
Now the way how class works is first
of all you put up a syntax class
that's a reserved keyword, just
like for if just like that.
And after that we
simply name our class.
The name of the class usually
and should always be starting
with the capital letter, and then
name it whatever you like.
In my case, of course,
I'll go with the Chai.
There are no parentheses,
nothing like that.
You simply put
up a colon and that's it.
I'll not do anything inside this.
I'll just say pass.
So although this class does
nothing, but this is the
simplest, most basic class that
we have designed, I want to know
more detail about this, so I'll
just go ahead and print some of
the information.
First of all, I want to,
check the type.
What's the type of this one here?
And, later on we're going
to see how we can actually
create objects out of it.
So for this, let's open up
an integrator terminal and there we
go, let's run Python and this one.
So notice here it says class type.
Now, although it says class
type, so what we see here
is this one class type.
But always remember, everything
in Python is an object.
This is truly an object language.
So although it says that, hey,
I am a class, but in reality
this class is also an object.
Yes, this is asked in interview
quite a lot of time, but always
remember that this is the case.
You were not able to see that.
So this is object, and everything
here is, an object, although
it says class, but internally
it is an object itself.
Now, how can we go ahead
and derive this object, this
object, or a pink object?
So from the class I can go
ahead and say, let's just say
I have a ginger T, and this
T will be getting the variable value
from the chai.
There we go, that's it.
Now, this is an object of chai class,
just exactly what we have seen.
This is a class,
and this is an object.
So we have created this object.
Now, okay, I want to see
more detail of this one.
So I'll just go ahead and say
print, and I want to run type,
and I want to see what
happens with this, ginger T.
All right, and we'll also
see one more thing which is
also very interesting.
So let's just say if I go ahead
and do a check is chai, I
can check whether this
whole thing is an object of class.
Chai.
I can just go ahead and check this.
I can check for other as well, like
Chai time, which doesn't exist,
but I can still make another class,
let's just say class, and we'll
call this one as Chai time.
Again, feel free to Create as
many classes as you wish.
We'll just get with that.
So we'll see whether this ginger
T is a type of chai or chai time.
This will help us to understand
more about the classes.
If I go ahead and run this
again, notice here, first
of all it says yes, the class
in itself is of type class.
So notice here the type is of class.
And then you can see this class.
This one here, the type of ginger T.
This is the line number seven.
So first, this one is going up here.
Now the second in the line number 10,
we are asking what is this ginger T?
So it's saying, hey, ginger T
actually is a class, but not just
any class, it actually is an object
of the type class chai.
There we go.
So this one is little
hard to understand.
But all it's saying is hey,
I am not a standalone thing.
I am an object which was
built using the class chai.
That's all it's saying.
After that we checked whether
this ginger type belongs
ginger chai, Ginger T belongs
to chai or chai time.
So it says true.
This one is true because
hey, it actually belongs to chai.
But it says false.
So that's what it's saying
that hey, I don't belong
to the class chai time.
I actually belong to a class chai.
That is it.
That's the most basic.
Just to give you an idea,
this is how you define the classes.
So line number one,
this is literally one line.
This is how you create classes.
And.
And line number nine, this
is how you create objects.
That is it told you
it's really simple.
And especially when you are with me,
it is always going to remain simple.
Let's go ahead and catch
up in next video.